---
layout: post
title:  "Virtalis"
date: 2023-02-24
author: Matthew Cheung
categories:
- Blog
- Experience
img: virtalis.png
published: true
---

- I joined Virtalis as a Junior Software Product Developer in August 2019.
- Moved onto being a Professional Software Product Developer in April 2021.
- Left Virtalis in April 2022<!--more-->

Products I've worked on: 

<b>Visionary Render</b>

Visionary Render is a design review tool for business to review/visualise their CAD data. It can also be
used to develop training simulations as well.

During my time working on Visionary Render, I was mainly working on rendering systems. This includes:

- Animation Systems: How the application manages animations imported by customers.
- Rendering pipelines: Maintained the rendering pipelines of Visionary Render.
- Shaders: Maintaining support for customer written post-processing shaders.
Also contributed to Ocean simulation shader (Implemented Snell's Window).

<b>Virtalis Reach</b>

After working on Visionary Render, I was moved onto the Virtalis Reach team during the prototyping stages and then to release to customers.
This is a web client used to run Visionary Render projects in a browser.

During this time I was working on the WebGL renderer alongside other serverside operations. Such as support for
VR/XR headsets using WebXR and communication between the web client and server.

During my time working on Virtalis Reach, I have worked on:

- WebGL rendering pipelines and working on WebXR capabilities.
- Writing React components that communicate with the server to fetch the scene tree and update it.
- Using Rest API to fetch scene data.

Both products I had to overcome some challenges. Such as performance of the rendering systems as CAD data
can be very complex. Especially trying to render these geometries in a browser. Both renderers used deferred rendering techniques.

<b>Visionary Render Technologies:</b>
- C/C++
- OpenGL
- Deferred Rendering
- GLSL shaders
- Post-processing
- CMAKE
- OpenVR
- Animations

<b>Virtalis Reach Technologies:</b>
- TypeScript
- C++ 17
- React
- WebGL
- WebXR
- TCP sockets

[visren]: https://www.virtalis.com/software/visionary-render
[reach]: https://www.virtalis.com/software/virtalis-reach
